Aaron Lack ~ I399 Project 4 ~ README ~ 5/3/21

Reflection: describe how you implemented your algorithm here

Overall, I believe I was pretty successful for implementing this project. I first I did was to pull the data from the API by using an async and await function. I made sure to use the correct API key and index the link with my index variable search in the arrow notation function. I also do error checking here, making sure the response was ok and if a user entered in something that wasn't a recipe, an error message displayed. If the recipe was valid, then I call the display recipe function, which is what I made for showing the recipe. My display recipe function grabs the recipe-info div to make sure this is where the meal is displayed in the HTML. I also make a variable called meals which is the index variable of the function and the meals from the DOM. I use a for each loop and add the appropriate html elements for the meal, including the header and image. I then insert the HTML beforend, because afterend messes up the styling of the page a lot. Afterwards, I add an event listener to the div containing the image and header in the for each loop so that when you click on the image, the full recipe detail shows up. The full recipe function helps dispay all the ingredients, measurements, and video links for the actual recipe. I write a regular for loop up to 20, because I believe the max number of ingredients and measurements used in this API is around 15-20 ish. This index variable i is replaced with the strIngredients and strMeasurements in the DOM so it can properly display in the HTML. I put all the ingredients and measurements in a table structure. I insert the HTML into another div containing the table of ingredients and measurements, and 2 paragraph tags and links for the video and the recipe source. Finally, I create a shuffle button in the HTML for the random recipe, and pull the recipe using the random API link with the correct API key. Then, I make sure the response is ok, and add an event listener to the shuffle button to the API, and a random recipe shows up.

Some difficulties I had with this project included not being able to insert adjacentHTML of property null. This was an issue because the structure of my HTML was bad when trying to dynamically build it up in JavaScript, resulting in errors. I think the most challenging part of this assignment besides pulling data from the API is styling all of the elements. I had a really hard time figuring out what data belonged in which container, and how to style it properly. My styling is ok, and I borrowed a lot from the weather API exercise we did in class with Erika. However, my styling could definitely use some work and it is not perfect. Styling is tricky especially when you build up the HTML dynamically in the JavaScript, since it is hard to see what data from the api belongs in which container. Otherwise, office hours were super helpful for completing this project. Thanks for a good semester. 